# Language Diarization
The aim of this project is to study various statistical and neural approaches for language diarization of Hindi-English code-switched speech. This is a course project for the course EE6307: Speech Systems offered by Prof. K Sri Rama Murty at IIT Hyderabad. This project was developed by
- [Ankit Saha](https://github.com/Ankit-Saha-2003)
- [Pranav Balasubramanian](https://github.com/Pranavb060504)

## Problem Statement
Language diarization is the process of automatically labeling and segmenting the languages in a speech signal that contains multiple languages. This is useful in multilingual settings, where speakers frequently code-switch between languages within a single conversation. Existing ASR systems perform better with language-specific models. Thus, there is a need to detect the languages present in different segments of a speech signal before passing it to an ASR. The signal has to be split into overlapping frames and the language identification has to be performed on each frame.

## Dataset 
We have used the [Synthetic Code-Switched Hindi-English Dataset](https://github.com/jagabandhumishra/Synthetic-cdsw-data/tree/master) generated by [Jagabandhu Mishra](https://github.com/jagabandhumishra) from the Speech Processing Lab, IIT Dharwad. This dataset consists of synthetically permuted segments of Hindi and English speech of the same speaker with different switch periods. Each signal consists of 5 language switch points. We had to manually listen to the audio files to find out the starting language in the signal, and then we used the switch periods to annotate the rest of the signal into Hindi or English.

## Approaches
We also performed voice activity detection (VAD) to annotate the silent regions in the speech signals. Now, we treated the language diarization task as a 3-class classification problem, with the classes being Hindi, English and Silent. All signals were zero-padded to ensure that they are of the same length before passing it to a neural network. The zero-padded regions are also annotated as Silent. We tried the following approaches. More details, including detailed results, can be found in our slides.
- Statistical
  - GMM
  - GMM-UBM
- Neural
  - MFCC features + CNN classifier
  - HuBERT features + CNN classifier

## Results
Statistical approaches for 2-class classification (Hindi, English)
| Approach | Accuracy |
|----------|----------|
| GMM      | 64.59%   |
| GMM-UBM  | 55%      |

Neural approaches for 3-class classification (Hindi, English, Silent)
| Approach | Accuracy including padding | Accuracy excluding padding
|----------|----------|----------|
| MFCC + CNN     | 92.90%   | 78.02% |
| HuBERT + CNN  |  93.77%  | 80.71%  |

## References
